[MUSIC]
In this lecture,
we'll talk about
networking libraries.
Now we already talked about socket
library in previous modules, but
we're going to go into other libraries,
just a little bit.
And then we'll get to specific,
sort of vendor-specific libraries,
that allow you to communicate
with different services online.
So networking libraries.
We've already learned
about the Socket Library,
a Socket Library is
a very low-level library.
By that I mean, it's very useful,
but there's more work for
the programmer to do, meaning
the programmer is left to handle a lot,
a relatively large amount of
details when it comes to this,
using the Socket Library
to send a message.
So specifically, the programmer has
to compose the message content, so
that means that the programmer has to be
aware of what the network protocol looks,
defines as the message to look like.
So the program has to know well for ATTP,
you gotta have this line
with the method at the top.
Then this on the second line.
You gotta have a series of headers,
you gotta know what
the valid header values are.
You have to know a lot,
a decent amount about what
the message is supposed to look like
in order to use the Socket Library,
because the Socket Library,
you have to specify that as a program.
Now, sometimes Socket Library is good if
you're just making some sort
of ad hoc communication,
say I just want my raspberry pie to
connect to my other raspberry pie, right?
And then, when I want them to talk to each
other, I can use whatever protocol I want.
I don't have to use HTTP or
any specific complicated protocol,
I can just make up something.
I can say look,
I'm going to send ten bytes every time,
which are the results from my ADD
converter, something like that, or
actually, raspberry pie doesn't have that,
but results from my computation.
I can, if I know that, then the socket is
good because you don't need any particular
kind of protocol that
you need to worry about.
You just stick ten bytes on the wire,
and on the receiving end,
you receive ten bytes, and
it's very simple, right.
There's no protocol you have to worry
about because you can make up the protocol
and make sure it's simple.
But with more complicated protocols,
it becomes a little bit more work to use
Socket Library because you
have to compose the message,
so you have to know
the details of the protocol.
So here's an example, and actually we
saw this example several lectures ago.
Sorry about the indentation.
It's just hard to fit on the screen right,
but the indentation is
important with python.
What's happened here,
is that some of these lines
are broken up over several lines.
For instance, the first three lines you
see on that screen, that's one line okay,
that's the creation of the socket.
We did this example before, all this is
doing is connecting to Google.com and
sending it a http get message.
So basically requesting the website,
requesting the data on the website,
the html on the website.
So, you could see, we're calling socket to
create the socket, then socket.get host by
name, with Google.com, so we have to get
the host, the IP addresses for Google.com.
So that's doing a DNS lookup and
then after that you do a connect and
then notice it says message equals,
and we have that message in quotes,
get blah blah blah and then we send.
Now, the thing to notice about
this is that that message,
you had to compose that message.
Now, this is a very simple message,
but you had to know
protocol specific details to know
what that message should look like.
The fact that the word get has to be
the first thing you see, get or put or
something like that.
There are several headers
that have to be first,
and you have to know that about HTML, HTTP
rather, in order to make that message.
The next thing, that slash.
That's telling you what directory to
look at, what file to find, right?
So the slash is just saying look,
whatever file the index at the top level,
that's what I want you to get, right?
You have to know that.
HTTP/1.1, that's giving you
the HTTP version that's being used.
You have to put that there and
use a program.
You have to know that.
Also the slash r slash n slash r slash n.
That's the character turn line feeds,
a couple of character line
feeds that you need, right?
You need two of them to let it know
that that's the end of the message.
So those details,
I mean I know about those.
We didn't specifically talk
about those but, you know,
it's possible for
you to look those things up.
You can Google http, find all the details.
But it can be a pain, right, because
that's the most simple message you're ever
going to see, HTTP message,
they get longer.
There are headers and
more complicated things that you want to
add into these type of messages.
So using the bare Socket Library
can be tedious for
a programmer because they have to
worry about all those details.
It is nice sometimes to use
protocol-specific libraries and there
are several of these available in Python
and for the Raspberry PI and so forth.
And so these libraries, they are,
you have several,
a lot of these just for one protocol.
Now the programmer doesn't have to know
the protocol details in this case.
So they can just rely on these library
functions that are available that
handle the details.
So it handles, as a for instance,
the character turn line keys.
It'll put those in.
And they'll put them in the right place in
the message and things like this, right?
So you just call these functions that
where the arguments of the functions are,
the key details, the key information
that you want to put in this message and
then the library function just
composes it into the appropriate type
of string of data, series of data and
then sends that for you.
And then on the other end, it receives it.
It does the same thing on receipt.
So they'll be library functions that maybe
receive a message of a particular type,
and rather than showing you the whole raw
message, they pulled out the important
things, you know, the payload and so
forth that you're interested in and
strip away the rest so that you don't
have to see that in the program.
So using these application specific or
rather protocol specific libraries
can be very helpful sometimes and
make it a lot easier.
So one of these libraries called,
well there's the http library, right?
So you can import http client,
then if you want to send that same
get message, you say con equals,
you call this function, they provide you
an http lib called http connection, right?
So you call that function, and
you just give it the name of
the domain that you want to go to.
So, this actually does a DNS lookup,
but it also establishes a connection.
It rolls it up in to one function,
and then conn.request, GET and
then /, that is actually what
sends the request message.
So, notice that you're just
giving the key details.
You're saying, look, GET,
this what I want to do,
this is the type of header I want.
And then /, this is the directory
of the file that I want.
You just give those key details and
it composes the bytes that it
needs to send in the request.
And this actually sends the request for
you, so this makes it easier.
Now this isn't, the difference between
this and what we saw in the last slide,
isn't that big because the thing on the
last slide was pretty simple as it was.
But this can be very helpful for
more complicated types of messages.
So even here, you don't have to worry
about exactly how the data is going to be
arranged in the packet,
in the message in the headers.
You just give it the key data to get
in the slash and it composes the rest.
So protocol specific libraries
are very helpful in that way.
And there are a lot of them for
a lot of different protocols,
we won't go through all those.
But you should know this for future, like
for the capstones say, when you want your
Raspberry Pi to interact with something on
the network, you don't necessarily have to
work from scratch with socket library,
and learn a whole protocol, right?
Say you know you want your HTTP,
you want your,
say you know you want your Raspberry Pi
to not HTTP, let's say another protocol.
Let's say you want to
talk to a mail server,
you want to send some mail, for
instance, okay, send email.
So email the typical
protocol is called SMTP, so
if you want to send mail you
have to compose that mail and
then make a message in the format of SMTP,
defined by that protocol.
Now you don't know that protocol,
now you can look up that protocol.
You can Google SMTP and
find an information about what
that protocol looks like.
But an easier way is just
to import SMTP lib and
I then use the function that
are provided in there to send the email.
It makes it much easier, right.
So just remember that for the future.
You don't want to build everything
from scratch if you can help it.
If there's any protocol, there's no way we
can go through all the different protocols
there are, but the different networking
protocols at the application level.
But look for application level
protocols specific It libraries for
any particular protocol that you're going
to interact with your Raspberry Pi.
Along those lines, let's talk about how
you interact with an online service.
So what we mean by this is, say there's
Raspberry Pi, it's a nice little machine.
But it's small, relatively small okay.
It only has so much computing power,
it only has so much resources, so
much information, right.
So in order to get interesting things
going on you're going to need, depending
what you want to do, you might need your
Raspberry Pi to connect to the cloud,
the web in general, or the cloud, and
offload some of it's job to the cloud, or
get information from the cloud, right?
So what happens is, the way this works
is there are these online services.
This service is already out there on
the web that do something for you, okay?
That do some tasks for you and maybe it's
a computational task that your raspberry
pie can't do fast, or
something like that, or
maybe it's accessing data that your
raspberry pie doesn't have locally.
So these services, they allow you,
your machines to connect to them.
So you can make a request,
you send a message from your say,
Raspberry Pi, to their servers with
some kind of request in there,
please give me this data, please perform
this operation, something like that.
And then the server sends back a message
to your device with the results.
So there are a lot of online
services like this, a whole lot.
They're pretty interesting to use.
So, for instance, Google Maps, right?
Say you want to make a webpage and
you want to have a Google map in there.
Say I want to have a webpage
with my office in there,
direct people to my office, something.
And I want to have Google Maps, you know,
a map in there with my address
highlighted, my location highlighted and
directions to my house and
whatever, my office.
So something like that,
I would make a webpage and
I want to have, I might want to have
code that interacts with Google Maps,
that allows people to do certain search
and basically what you do on Google Maps.
You can do it through my page.
[COUGH] So there's an interface for
that, that's an online service.
And you can send it a message, a request
message, send Google servers a request
message, please give me this map, and
give me these directions, whatever.
It'll send them back, and
you can put them on your webpage.
Twitter, so,
say you want to send a tweet, right?
You can write a program
that sends a tweet,
that you don't have to do it manually.
You can create a message,
send a message to Twitter servers,
Twitter servers take it and
send the tweet.
Or the other way.
Maybe you want your code
to examine tweets, right?
So you can send a request message,
let me see tweets like this and
it'll send back the tweets, you know.
Let me see tweets that match
this characteristic and
though Twitter service will
send them back to your machine.
YouTube, maybe you want to make
a web page something like that,
an app that has an interface,
well lets you upload videos, right?
And basically, you can copy a lot
of what YouTube already provides.
You can put that locally on your device,
on your app or
your web page or something like that,
using their interface.
And Facebook too, same thing, right?
You want to look at somebody's profile or
something like that through Facebook,
you can write code that does that, okay?
And it's always Facebook servers, or
YouTube servers, Twitter servers,
Google Maps servers,
that are doing the job, but your device is
interacting with their servers through
messages that are going back and forth.
So there are lots of online services,
and if you're interested,
you can Google these.
These type of web based,
usually they're called APIs.
We'll talk about this.
You can Google them to get a long list
of lots of different public APIs that
you can use.
So, oh, and some of these services
you may have to pay for, right.
They're not all free.
So, a lot of them, they have a free part,
so maybe you get some ability for free,
but other things you have to pay for,
right.
So that depends on what service
you're using, right, but
some of them will cost money.
Thank you.
[MUSIC]